---
layout: default
title: Biography
weight: 2
---

Martin Malmgren is a pianist based in Finland. As an active performer, he frequently performs solo recitals, collaborates with singers and instrumentalists, works with composers and surprises his audiences performing unjustly neglected works far outside of the standard repertoire. Always aiming at finding meaningful connections between different composers, his concert programs typically show a thoughtful approach towards building bridges between different musical styles and periods. In March 2014 he won the first prize at the Ilmari Hannikainen Piano Competition, the largest national piano competition in Finland, after having performed the rarely heard Prokofiev 5th piano concerto. Just prior to the competition, he toured Sweden and Norway performing Ravel’s Left Hand Concerto with the University of Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra conducted by Petri Sakari, performing in Gothenburg, Larvik and Bergen (Grieghallen). Throughout the years, he has also had considerable success in other competitions - he won the Nordic Yamaha Competition in 2011, was a prize-winner at the Helmi Vesa Competition 2012, a finalist in the Solofoni prize 2009, and in October 2013 he won the Ljunggren competition, the largest classical music competition in Sweden, open to all instrumentalists and singers. He has performed throughout Europe, Israel and USA, and has frequently been invited to perform in music festivals including Eilat Chamber Music Festival, Music Academy of the West (California), Aurora Chamber Music Festival, Trelleborg International Piano Festival and many others. As an active soloist, he has appeared with orchestras such as Helsingborg Symphony Orchestra, Jyväskylä Sinfonia, Oma Orkesteri and many others, performing works by Bartok, Bach, Elliott Carter, Schumann, Ravel, Prokofiev and Gershwin. Typically giving around 60-70 performances per year, upcoming highlights include soloist appearances at the Music Centre in Helsinki, a nomination as "Young soloist" in "Music in the Castles and Manor Houses of Sörmland" and performances at several summer festivals in Sweden and Finland. In May 2014, he is also performing the complete Mazurkas by Karol Szymanowski in Helsinki.   

As an active collaborator with other musicians, Martin frequently performs with singers like Annami Hylkilä, Martin Vanberg, Niall Chorell and Julia Heéger, and musicians as Tobias Ringborg, Ellen Nisbeth, Brusk Zanganeh and many others. As a soloist, he has collaborated with conductors as Petri Sakari, Eva Ollikainen, Ville Matvejeff, Giancarlo Rizzi and Erkki Lasonpalo, to mention a few.

Taking a great interest in contemporary music, Martin has often performed in contemporary music ensembles. He premiered Daniel Börtz' piano quintet "Agora" in 2010, and has been involved in performing newly-written works by Sven-David Sandström, Anders Nilsson, Pasi Lyytikäinen, Magnus Lindberg, Asko Hyvärinen, Peter Lieberson, Lotta Wennäkoski and Jyrki Linjama among others, often under guidance of the composers.

Martin holds a Bachelor of Music from Edsberg Manor/Royal Academy of Music in Stockholm, where he studied piano with Mats Widlund and chamber music with  Mats Zetterqvist. Since 2009, he is pursuing a masters degree at the Sibelius Academy, with Ilmo Ranta being his main piano teacher the last few years. 

As an active collaborator with artists in other fields, Martin has also performed with famous pop/rock groups as well as folk music groups. As a founding member of the klezmer/balkan band Babalisk, he has participated in several CD recordings. The group has also actively been taking part in folk music festivals and similar events all over Sweden.
